Donald Trump a man whose presidential
library could conceivably exhibit a
Razzie award seriously
he won a Razzie in 1991 for his
supporting role in the film ghosts can't
do it as a businessman negotiating with
bo Derek in this room there are knives
sharp enough to cut you to the bone
in hearts cold enough to eat yours as
hors d'oeuvres you're too pretty to be
bet that kissy face is the single most
disgusting thing that's ever been in a
movie and I'm very much including the
human centipede what we're not going to
talk about Trump's movie career tonight
instead we want to focus on the two-year
anniversary of one of his signature
campaign promises we are going to drain
the swamp in Washington DC it's time to
drain the swamp of corruption drain the
swamp look at that sign drain the swamp
we're gonna drain the swamp of
Washington we're gonna have fun doing it
we're all doing it together we're gonna
have fun doing it and we're all doing it
together sounds less like a campaign
promise and more like a nervous host
rambling through the introduction of
their first ever orgy so we're gonna
have fun doing it and we're all doing it
together
and thanks without overspread Tom oh
we said no names didn't we don't
really don't really dominate everybody
now behind the coffee table and
look limiting the power of industry
lobbyists and special interest is a
genuinely good idea and what I would
love to give him credit the odds are if
your whole political platform is just
screaming random three word phrases one
of them is gonna bound to end up being
good lock her up no build the wall
no all dogs ooh stop that's actually a
great idea it took a while but you
finally threw out a good one well Trump
by no means came up with that phrase it
clearly caught on after he won because
other candidates began using it and
perhaps not more memorably or literally
from this guy I'm barb gray an outsider
and a biz
I'm running to fuel the economy choke
off wasteful spending and secure our
nation but most importantly I promise to
drain the swamps
right except you're not really draining
the swamp so much as you are moving it a
couple of feet off-camera and scooch the
swamp it just doesn't quite have the
same ring to it does it but as much as
people have taken to Trump's drained the
swamp promise it won't remotely surprise
you to know that he has not drained the
swamp even one little bit
his capita has included many swamp
creatures from these two goldman sachs
veterans working on tax policy Gary Cohn
and certified handful of man-candy Steve
Minuten to Wilbur Ross commerce
secretary wealthy corporate raider and
living worst-case scenario what can
happen when Wallace Shawn is not stored
at the proper temperature Trump has a
laughable number of wealthy businessmen
presiding over policies that could
directly benefit themselves and their
former employers and incredibly despite
drain the swamp being one of trumps
greatest hits at his rallies many of his
supporters do not seem troubled by this
the swamp is horrible and Trump is there
he's there for the small guy he's there
for people like myself though his
cabinet is filled with multimillionaires
I love that they're not politicians and
you don't see them as part of the swamp
who are not a little eyes on the system
in in in a capitalist system you're
allowed to make money being rich is good
yeah so then what is the swamp just want
for me mainstream is is yes you almost
nailed it it's the mainstream it's the
elite that looked down on a small guy
like myself okay first if your
mainstream you can't be elite by
definition elites are a select group
superior to the mainstream those terms
are mutually exclusive digging into this
logical fallacy makes me sound like an
elitist asshole it does not make me
sound like a mainstream our soul do you
see what I mean second second
and perhaps most importantly the narrow
question of self enrichment is only part
of why the swamp is a problem a much
bigger issue is the harm that can that
it can actually do and that is what our
story is about tonight because real
damage is being done to these small guy
by this administration's actions take
payday lending as we've discussed on
this show before people's lives can be
destroyed by misleadingly marketed high
interest loans but the new acting head
of the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau Mick Mulvaney has been actively
working with the payday loan industry to
block rules reining them in why would he
do that I don't know what I do know is
that as a congressman he got sixty
thousand dollars in campaign
contributions from payday lending
interests and earlier this year he told
a roomful of bankers this amusing
anecdote
we had a hierarchy in my office in
Congress if you're a lobbyist who never
gave us money I didn't talk to you if
you're a lobbyist who gave us money I
might talk to you now he did say he
would always talk to constituents
whether they gave him money or not but
the fact Molly he's admitting that as a
lobbyist money might get you a meeting
you don't often hear that from a
politician yeah you actually don't I
mean it's something that everyone
naturally assumes but it is weird to
hear it out loud it's like at Disney
World Park attendants saying hey kids
who must have their photo taken with a
30 year old theater major who couldn't
hack it in the industry and who now
wears a full-body Mouse suit I mean
there's no new information there but it
is still unpleasant to listen to but
just focusing on the famous alligators
in Trump's swamp is missing some of the
most important damage that's getting
done by lesser-known bureaucrats and to
illustrate that let's look at two
agencies tonight first the EPA now for a
year it was run by Scott Pruitt who
became a household name for doing things
like spending forty thousand dollars on
a soundproof booth in his office trying
to get the CEO of chick-fil-a to give
his wife a franchise and demanding an
expensive 24/7 security detail then
making it drive him around town to see
which ritz-carlton had the lotion he
lights which is simply insane because
everyone knows the best lotion comes
from La Quinta Inn that's right if you
want to masturbate with Hotel lotion
choose lakita is
their slogan says like who has the
lotion that will help you juice once
those chronic left there were not as
many flashy headlines about the EPA but
that itself is actually dangerous
because he was not an isolated case
nearly half of the political appointees
hired by Trump at the EPA have strong
industry ties and the guy who replaced
Pruitt is not much of an improvement
the man tapped to be Pruitt's
replacement andrew wheeler a man who
Forbes says earned more than $700,000 in
recent years as wait for it a call
obvious yeah at this point though CNN
you really don't need to ask the
American people to wait for it
surprise is just one more emotion that
Trump has completely destroyed along
with joy Wonder and the ability to see
someone wearing a red hat from behind
without mentally saying god dammit we
pushed hard to roll back environmental
regulations impacting the industry in
fact here he is as a lobbyist meeting
with Rick Perry doing exactly that and
little over a year later he is running
the EPA and dismantling the very
regulations he lobbies against which is
ridiculous is like handing your cities
waste management over to a seagull so
let me get this straight
the new strategies we just throw our
trash everywhere and leave it strewn
around and we should have more french
fries in our garbage how the are
you in charge but but wheeler wheeler is
actually a really good example of how
once Trump's swamp starts seeping in it
can filter all the way down an
organization and for just how deep it
can go simply look at the Department of
the Interior on this show we've lavished
quite a bit of attention on Trump's
appointee to head them Ryan's inky which
is understandable he rode a horse to
work on his first day at the department
he swung Karen pence around like a bag
of potatoes and despite the fact that he
is very much not a geologist he has a
weird habit of doing this that's the
questionnaire Sonoma geologist I'm a
geologist I'm a geologist I'm a
geologist I'm a geologist
he's not a geologist at all besides
bragging about Vienna College is a very
weird boat it's just like walking around
saying I own crackers saltines cheese's
you name it I own it not oyster crackers
of course Who am I Bill Gates Zinke has
also taken 66 personal days in his first
year and a half on the job and has been
the subject of no less than 15
investigations and reportedly he may
actually be gone any day now
but even if that happens serious
problems will remain because the swamp
runs deep interior is a massive
department and there is real power at
every level I'll show you
look at this organizational chart below
Zinke and the deputy secretary and the
assistant secretary for land and
minerals management you will find a very
important subdivision called the bureau
of safety and environmental enforcement
or Besse which is in charge of safety on
offshore oil rigs and I know what you're
thinking safety on offshore oil rigs
wouldn't recognize the oversight of any
resource development on the outer
continental shelf fall under the
jurisdiction of the minerals management
service but wouldn't that be where the
responsibility lies John to which I say
congratulations on being a sex God and
you know what you're right you're right
the minerals management service actually
used to be in charge of safety until
2010 when there was that catastrophe at
deepwater horizon this is the video BP
did not want the world to see
toxic blend of oil and gas spewing from
its broken well at the bottom of the
Gulf of Mexico yes the Deepwater Horizon
famously pumped over 130 million gallons
of oil into the Gulf of Mexico about 12
times the size of the Exxon Valdez spill
costing the region billions and badly
hurting the fishing and tourism
industries and you know you know it was
a disaster because Mark Wahlberg made a
movie about it and he usually chooses
historic films about the most absolutely
appalling things stuff like tragic
shipwrecks acts of terrorism and Mel
Gibson's seamless reintegration into
Hollywood
and and he's years after two ports on
horizon
the reason was still feeling the effects
when the little boys fish in this area
right here Papa woody catches the pond
really half and and what kind of
deformities
they got tumors on the head a little
bumped off the sod it's all in the gills
where they breathe that all in
there so that's oil and gills
yeah if you take this shell off you
could pull all our you get smelling yeah
that's horrible
not only did that spill devastate an
economy it's somehow actually managed to
make shrimp even more disgusting and I
hate shrimp they are slimy armored alien
bugs but improper preparation involves
pulling out their shits Bane there is
not enough cocktail sauce in the world
to erase the memory of a ship vain and
yet somehow that oil spill made them
even grosser now now before Deepwater
Horizon the Minerals Management Service
was in charge of both safety on oil rigs
and collecting revenues from all
companies which was clearly a bad idea
because it was an obvious conflict of
interest so after deepwater they created
Bessy an agency whose only job is to
keep people and the environment safe
that is their sole responsibility
promotion of drilling in the Gulf that
is someone else's job
Bessie's is safety that is all they do
that is probably why it's last two heads
were a former Coast Guard officer
specializing in marine safety and a
former Coast Guard officer specializing
in marine safety however Trump has taken
a different path appointing Scott
Angelle former lieutenant governor of
Louisiana and a guy who is aggressively
pro drilling for a sense of just how
aggressive he is just days after the
Deepwater well was capped our shale was
at a rally organized by the Louisiana
Oil & Gas Association where he called
for an immediate resumption of deep-sea
drilling saying this enough is enough
and it's time to quit punishing innocent
American workers to achieve some
unrealistic political agenda while we to
support the use of renewable and
alternative energy let's keep the
conversation real America is not yet
ready to get all of its fuel from the
birds and the bees
the flowers and the trees ha ha
America is not yet ready to get fuel
from trees you mean wood scientists have
understood how wood works for years now
maybe even decades but after serving as
lieutenant governor I shall join the
board of Sunoco logistics partners and
oil pipeline company earning nearly a
million dollars and now he's regulating
the oil industry and if there is any
doubt about his priorities which there
is not just wait until you see something
we found on YouTube because last year
ours y'all gave a presentation at an oil
industry conference where he was flanked
by two men one in a hardhat both of whom
were eating during a significant portion
of his speech but that is not the
important part the incredible Rodgers is
when he makes it painfully clear exactly
how accessible he the man in charge of
enforcing safety remember is willing to
be to industry leaders Marcel number
ears anybody wants to give me a call to
talk about it my cell numbers five seven
one five eighty five thirty seven thirty
five seven one five eighty five thirty
seven thirty I'd rather you call me
everything you texted me is a public
record so be careful this is a business
opportunity for you to engage with me on
what you believe we ought to be about
holy he just gave out his work cell
phone number and encouraged all bosses
to call him on it as a business
opportunity that is outrageous for two
reasons first because he's doing that to
avoid the public record and second no
one should ever call rather than text I
don't care what the scenario is if you
prefer calling to texting you're a
psychopath and you should be put
in prison forever
detect whatever the situation and that
is his real number we know because we
called it and apparently he gives it out
publicly to executives all the time and
another industry conference he even
announced it from a stage and who knows
what those executives tell him it's not
part of the public record but by sheer
coincidence he urged the White House to
loosen safety requirements implemented
in the wake of Deepwater Horizon which
they are now planning to do and which
his estimating could save all companies
nearly a billion dollars over the next
decade which is the most shocking ten
digit number I've heard since five seven
one five eight five 3730 so it's at this
point that Trump has a no way drains the
swamp what he has done is drained the
phrase of its original meaning and in
fairness to him he was pretty
transparent from the beginning about how
little he meant it
this is him just one month after his
election essentially telling everyone to
their faces that the phrase was
meaningless funny how that term car
owners do I taught I tell every I hated
it so what he said drained his swamp I
said oh that's so hokey that is so
terrible I said alright I'll try it so
like a month ago I said drain the swamp
place went crazy I said whoa what's this
then I said it again then I started
saying it like I meant it right and then
I said it I said loving it and the place
loved it strained the swamp it made it's
true it's true it's true
it isn't it isn't it isn't Trump never
meant drain the swamp and you can tell
that by what has happened since because
he promised to clean up DC and instead
the guy in charge of the CFPB is holding
hands with loan sharks the EPA might as
well be run by a sentient piece of coal
and his head of oil rig safety what's
the industry to blow up his digits like
an under regulated oil well all in all
it seems like if there is anyone
remaining who is still hoping that Trump
might drain the swamp
you can now officially kissy-face that
idea of goodbye
you